---
layout: post
title: "Matthew Weinschenk"
---

The Question of Urban Renewal
-----------------------------

What is the effect of urban renewal and slum clearance? Given the
different characteristics of cities its difficult to directly determine
the city-wide effects of programs designed to improve certain
neighborhoods.

To investigate this question, this document creates linear models in R
and descibes the use of instrumental variables as a method of teasing
out relations ships by way of replicating a study by William J. Collins
and Katherine L. Shester.

The data and paper are available here: [American Economic
Association](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/app.5.1.239&within%5Btitle%5D=on&journal=4&q=Slum+Clearance+and+Urban+Renewal+in+the+United+States&from=j)

And a free working paper version is available here:
[NBER](http://www.nber.org/papers/w17458)

A Brief History
---------------

After World War II, Title I of the Housing Act of 1949 offered federal
subsidies to cities willing to undertake revitalization projects. The
funding ran through 1974, by which time a total of $53 billion (in 2009
money) had been parceled out.

Such projects can be controversial. Opponents complain about unfair
impacts on poor residents, such as displacement and the destruction of
neighborhoods.

There certainly are such consequences. With this data, we can only
investigate whether or not these projects have positive economic effects
on the city as a whole.

The Instrumental Variable
-------------------------

Simply comparing the outcomes of cities that underwent renewal projects
and those that did not would suffer from selection bias. That is, the
cities that chose to undertake renewal projects may have had something
fundamentally different about them that would change their subsequent
economic outcomes.

For instance, cities that undertook projects may have had more proactive
local governments or they may have already had stronger economies.

In an attempt to isolate the effects of the projects, we'll use an
instrumental variable (or instrument). The goal of an instrumental
variable is to find a feature that related to your treatment (the use of
renewal programs) but not related to the error term of your regression
(the variation in economic outcomes.)

Instruments are weird to think about and a better understanding will
help many people better interpret statistical findings.

In a classic example, economist Michael Waldman wanted to test if
watching television contributed to the development of autism. Ideally,
you could test the amount of television watched against rates of autism
but we don't have data on the amount of television watched. Instead he
used the amount of rain. If it rains more, children will stay inside and
watch more television (the instrument is related to the treatment) but
rain does not cause autism (the instrument is unrelated to the outcome).

In the urban renewal case, we can look at local laws that prevented
renewal projects as an instrument.

In order to claim the federal funds, states had to enable legislation
and create local public agencies (LPAs) to start the renewal programs.
If there were legislative delays, a city that wanted to participate
would be constrained from participating. When you consider the start
date of an LPA, you're really measuring years of potential participation
in renewal programs.

We're trying to remove the effect of cities self-selecting for renewal
projects. So cities being contrained by laws (the instrument) is related
to the undertaking of renewal projects (the treatment) but unrelated to
the other economic starting conditions of the city (the variation in the
outcome).

The Data
--------

The data includes cities with more than 25,000 residents, lists the
total of federal grants by the end of the program in 1974, and includes
a range of different housing and economic data at 1950 and 1980.

    ## The data comes in the dta file format for Stata. To read in R...
    library(foreign)
    data <- read.dta("AEJApp-2011-0297_citydata.dta")

    ## Subset the data to only include cities with population > 25,000
    city<-subset(data, pop50 >= 25000 & pop80 >= 25000)

    ## Exclude Hawaii, Alaska, and Washington, DC and any with missing data...
    city<-subset(city, stateabb != "AK" & stateabb != "HI" & stateabb != "DC")
    city<-subset(city, app_funds_pc50 != "NA" & yrsexposure_UR != "NA" & pownocc50 != "NA" & lnmedval50 != "NA" & pdilap50 != "NA" & poldunits50 != "NA" & punitswoplumb50 != "NA" & pcrowd50 != "NA" & lnpop50 != "NA" & pnonwht50 != "NA" & plf_manuf_50 != "NA" & pemp50 != "NA" & medsch50 != "NA" & lnfaminc50 != "NA" & pinc_under2g_50 != "NA")

    ##Finally, several column headers have leading "_" which causes an error when modeling. Let's remove them. 
    colnames(city) <- sub("^_", "", colnames(city))

Let's do a quick exploration of the dataset. We've got 458 cities and
189 variables.

We'd like to see if the funds has any relationship on variables like
change in median income, property value, or poverty. We can plot these
to see any relationships.

    library(ggplot2)
    library(ggthemes)

    propertyPlot <- ggplot(data=city, aes(x=app_funds_pc50, y=(lnmedval80 - lnmedval50))) + geom_point() + xlab("Funds") + ylab("Change in property values") + theme_few() + ggtitle("Property Values and Urban Renewal Funds")

    incomePlot <- ggplot(data=city, aes(x=app_funds_pc50, y=(dlnfaminc8050))) + geom_point() + xlab("Funds") + ylab("Median income growth") + theme_few() + ggtitle("Median Income and Urban Renewal Funds")

    povertyPlot <- ggplot(data=city, aes(x=app_funds_pc50, y=(dpfampov8050))) + geom_point() + xlab("Funds") + ylab("Change in percent in poverty") + theme_few() + ggtitle("Poverty and Urban Renewal Funds")

    propertyPlot

    ## Warning: Removed 1 rows containing missing values (geom_point).

![](slumReplication_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-1-1.png)

    incomePlot

![](slumReplication_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-1-2.png)

    povertyPlot

![](slumReplication_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-1-3.png)

There's little relationship to see. Clearly if there are relationships,
we've got to make adjustments to find them. That's why we'll use our
model to adjust for confounding variables and our instrument.

The Model
---------

To use an instrument variable you use a two-stage regreesion. First
model the instrument (years of participation - CODE) against the
treatment (urban renewal grants per capita - CODE) to see if the
instrument is significant.

Williams and Shester use two models, one simple and one using a lot of
economic variables as controls. R comes with the `lm` function for
fitting linear models.

    IV.basic <- lm(app_funds_pc50 ~ yrsexposure_UR + Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42 , data = city)
      
    IV.advanced <- lm(app_funds_pc50 ~ yrsexposure_UR + pownocc50 + lnmedval50 + pdilap50 + poldunits50 + punitswoplumb50 + pcrowd50 + lnpop50 + pnonwht50 + plf_manuf_50 + pemp50 + medsch50 + lnfaminc50 + pinc_under2g_50 + Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42 , data = city)
      
    summary(IV.basic)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = app_funds_pc50 ~ yrsexposure_UR + Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + 
    ##     Iregion_22 + Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + 
    ##     Iregion_42, data = city)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -280.84 -122.67  -49.75   63.43 1634.29 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                 Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)       0.1506    82.2691   0.002 0.998540    
    ## yrsexposure_UR    9.7062     3.1643   3.067 0.002290 ** 
    ## Iregion_12       38.0311    37.9887   1.001 0.317311    
    ## Iregion_21     -136.0565    34.9360  -3.894 0.000113 ***
    ## Iregion_22       29.0926    46.2369   0.629 0.529534    
    ## Iregion_31       -4.9827    43.5944  -0.114 0.909055    
    ## Iregion_32      -57.1677    51.3320  -1.114 0.266011    
    ## Iregion_33      -30.6077    52.0524  -0.588 0.556817    
    ## Iregion_41       -5.7090    64.2579  -0.089 0.929245    
    ## Iregion_42     -100.8740    42.3983  -2.379 0.017768 *  
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 211.8 on 448 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.1028, Adjusted R-squared:  0.08479 
    ## F-statistic: 5.704 on 9 and 448 DF,  p-value: 1.675e-07

    summary(IV.advanced)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = app_funds_pc50 ~ yrsexposure_UR + pownocc50 + lnmedval50 + 
    ##     pdilap50 + poldunits50 + punitswoplumb50 + pcrowd50 + lnpop50 + 
    ##     pnonwht50 + plf_manuf_50 + pemp50 + medsch50 + lnfaminc50 + 
    ##     pinc_under2g_50 + Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + 
    ##     Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42, 
    ##     data = city)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -277.18 -114.38  -52.70   64.16 1572.85 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                   Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)   
    ## (Intercept)     1920.74917 2009.10063   0.956  0.33959   
    ## yrsexposure_UR    10.32003    3.29919   3.128  0.00188 **
    ## pownocc50         -2.23714    1.39348  -1.605  0.10912   
    ## lnmedval50       -66.93736   72.07994  -0.929  0.35358   
    ## pdilap50           1.04677    4.32450   0.242  0.80885   
    ## poldunits50       -0.15491    0.84606  -0.183  0.85481   
    ## punitswoplumb50   -0.48007    1.70615  -0.281  0.77856   
    ## pcrowd50          -0.06288    2.64394  -0.024  0.98104   
    ## lnpop50           -3.72301   12.66762  -0.294  0.76897   
    ## pnonwht50          1.54227    1.66560   0.926  0.35498   
    ## plf_manuf_50      -1.14134    1.31213  -0.870  0.38487   
    ## pemp50           -11.02434    7.54419  -1.461  0.14465   
    ## medsch50           4.29208   16.22318   0.265  0.79147   
    ## lnfaminc50       -13.66471  250.95341  -0.054  0.95660   
    ## pinc_under2g_50   -1.16487    5.24609  -0.222  0.82438   
    ## Iregion_12        40.11278   43.22257   0.928  0.35390   
    ## Iregion_21       -94.00924   45.17485  -2.081  0.03802 * 
    ## Iregion_22        57.87116   61.51792   0.941  0.34737   
    ## Iregion_31       -59.19804   66.66550  -0.888  0.37504   
    ## Iregion_32      -123.52933   78.12609  -1.581  0.11457   
    ## Iregion_33       -57.85992   79.06764  -0.732  0.46470   
    ## Iregion_41       -22.98570   77.12064  -0.298  0.76581   
    ## Iregion_42      -123.18947   59.22877  -2.080  0.03812 * 
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 211.1 on 435 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.135,  Adjusted R-squared:  0.09123 
    ## F-statistic: 3.085 on 22 and 435 DF,  p-value: 4.709e-06

In the basic model, we're testing to see if years of exposure has any
affect on the amount of funds spent. We 'control' for different census
regions to make sure that different areas don't confuse the effect.

We find `yrsexposure_UR` has a positive and significant coefficient of
9.7, suggesting that it does make a difference. Considering units, this
suggests an additional year of potential projects leads to an addition
$9.70 in renewal projects per capita.

In the advanced model, we add more economic controls based on economic
factors in 1950. For instance, a city with a high employment rate in
1950 (`pemp50`) may have used fewer federal funds. We see that
employment does have a strong negative effect. So areas with strong
employment tend to use fewer federal dollars on renewal projects. This
is the sort of effect that we're trying to remove from our final
analysis.

Now we need to use that regression (including controls) and get
predicted values of urban renewal grants. We feed those predicted values
into another regression to test the effects of the urban renewal grants
on different economic outcomes. We test the effects on four different
economic variables...

    #Get predicted values from the IV model we just created and add them to the data

    city$ur_iv <- predict(IV.advanced)

    #test outcomes on property values, income, employment, and poverty rates
    propertyModel <- lm (lnmedval80 ~ ur_iv + poldunits50 + pdilap50 + punitswoplumb50 + pcrowd50 + pownocc50 + lnmedval50 + pnonwht50 + medsch50 + lnpop50 + lnfaminc50 + pemp50 + plf_manuf_50 + pinc_under2g_50 + Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42 , data=city)

    incomeModel<- lm (lnfaminc80 ~ ur_iv + poldunits50 + pdilap50 + punitswoplumb50 + pcrowd50 + pownocc50 + lnmedval50 + pnonwht50 + medsch50 + lnpop50 + lnfaminc50 + pemp50 + plf_manuf_50 + pinc_under2g_50 + Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42 , data=city)

    employmentModel<- lm (pemp80 ~ ur_iv + poldunits50 + pdilap50 + punitswoplumb50 + pcrowd50 + pownocc50 + lnmedval50 + pnonwht50 + medsch50 + lnpop50 + lnfaminc50 + pemp50 + plf_manuf_50 + pinc_under2g_50 + Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42 , data=city)

    povertyModel<- lm (pinc_under5g_80 ~ ur_iv + poldunits50 + pdilap50 + punitswoplumb50 + pcrowd50 + pownocc50 + lnmedval50 + pnonwht50 + medsch50 + lnpop50 + lnfaminc50 + pemp50 + plf_manuf_50 + pinc_under2g_50 + Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42 , data=city)

    summary(propertyModel)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = lnmedval80 ~ ur_iv + poldunits50 + pdilap50 + punitswoplumb50 + 
    ##     pcrowd50 + pownocc50 + lnmedval50 + pnonwht50 + medsch50 + 
    ##     lnpop50 + lnfaminc50 + pemp50 + plf_manuf_50 + pinc_under2g_50 + 
    ##     Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + 
    ##     Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42, data = city)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##      Min       1Q   Median       3Q      Max 
    ## -0.70599 -0.13073  0.00591  0.12744  0.65489 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                   Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)      1.3814350  2.1203578   0.652  0.51506    
    ## ur_iv            0.0006924  0.0002971   2.331  0.02022 *  
    ## poldunits50     -0.0013056  0.0007849  -1.663  0.09697 .  
    ## pdilap50         0.0012416  0.0040802   0.304  0.76104    
    ## punitswoplumb50  0.0021313  0.0015967   1.335  0.18266    
    ## pcrowd50         0.0012078  0.0024575   0.491  0.62332    
    ## pownocc50        0.0009795  0.0014893   0.658  0.51107    
    ## lnmedval50       0.8906912  0.0715942  12.441  < 2e-16 ***
    ## pnonwht50       -0.0037329  0.0015725  -2.374  0.01804 *  
    ## medsch50        -0.0114937  0.0152053  -0.756  0.45012    
    ## lnpop50         -0.0510325  0.0117454  -4.345 1.74e-05 ***
    ## lnfaminc50      -0.0020301  0.2564311  -0.008  0.99369    
    ## pemp50           0.0193466  0.0076807   2.519  0.01213 *  
    ## plf_manuf_50    -0.0032816  0.0012581  -2.608  0.00941 ** 
    ## pinc_under2g_50  0.0024053  0.0052561   0.458  0.64745    
    ## Iregion_12      -0.2367832  0.0423415  -5.592 3.97e-08 ***
    ## Iregion_21      -0.1020339  0.0498359  -2.047  0.04122 *  
    ## Iregion_22      -0.0984661  0.0565752  -1.740  0.08249 .  
    ## Iregion_31      -0.0640967  0.0665157  -0.964  0.33577    
    ## Iregion_32       0.0346612  0.0801918   0.432  0.66579    
    ## Iregion_33      -0.0591041  0.0801599  -0.737  0.46132    
    ## Iregion_41       0.1088341  0.0743790   1.463  0.14413    
    ## Iregion_42       0.4924837  0.0664283   7.414 6.49e-13 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 0.1961 on 434 degrees of freedom
    ##   (1 observation deleted due to missingness)
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.7227, Adjusted R-squared:  0.7087 
    ## F-statistic: 51.42 on 22 and 434 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

    summary(incomeModel)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = lnfaminc80 ~ ur_iv + poldunits50 + pdilap50 + punitswoplumb50 + 
    ##     pcrowd50 + pownocc50 + lnmedval50 + pnonwht50 + medsch50 + 
    ##     lnpop50 + lnfaminc50 + pemp50 + plf_manuf_50 + pinc_under2g_50 + 
    ##     Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + 
    ##     Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42, data = city)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##      Min       1Q   Median       3Q      Max 
    ## -0.56067 -0.04737  0.00851  0.06389  0.28128 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                   Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)      2.336e+00  1.061e+00   2.201 0.028234 *  
    ## ur_iv            2.409e-04  1.609e-04   1.497 0.135189    
    ## poldunits50      5.364e-04  4.253e-04   1.261 0.207830    
    ## pdilap50         1.717e-03  2.204e-03   0.779 0.436333    
    ## punitswoplumb50  1.782e-03  8.646e-04   2.061 0.039892 *  
    ## pcrowd50        -3.394e-05  1.331e-03  -0.025 0.979671    
    ## pownocc50        4.705e-03  8.037e-04   5.855 9.41e-09 ***
    ## lnmedval50       2.091e-01  3.857e-02   5.422 9.81e-08 ***
    ## pnonwht50        5.506e-04  8.509e-04   0.647 0.517929    
    ## medsch50         7.631e-04  8.197e-03   0.093 0.925868    
    ## lnpop50         -2.393e-02  6.338e-03  -3.775 0.000182 ***
    ## lnfaminc50       5.519e-01  1.263e-01   4.371 1.55e-05 ***
    ## pemp50           1.152e-02  4.161e-03   2.768 0.005883 ** 
    ## plf_manuf_50    -1.267e-03  6.812e-04  -1.860 0.063505 .  
    ## pinc_under2g_50 -2.803e-04  2.659e-03  -0.105 0.916102    
    ## Iregion_12      -1.091e-01  2.288e-02  -4.767 2.55e-06 ***
    ## Iregion_21      -5.578e-02  2.699e-02  -2.067 0.039304 *  
    ## Iregion_22      -3.847e-02  3.065e-02  -1.255 0.210143    
    ## Iregion_31      -4.711e-02  3.600e-02  -1.309 0.191337    
    ## Iregion_32       3.547e-02  4.344e-02   0.817 0.414655    
    ## Iregion_33      -5.016e-03  4.340e-02  -0.116 0.908039    
    ## Iregion_41      -5.847e-02  4.030e-02  -1.451 0.147545    
    ## Iregion_42      -1.459e-02  3.599e-02  -0.405 0.685460    
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 0.1063 on 435 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.6345, Adjusted R-squared:  0.616 
    ## F-statistic: 34.32 on 22 and 435 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

    summary(employmentModel)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = pemp80 ~ ur_iv + poldunits50 + pdilap50 + punitswoplumb50 + 
    ##     pcrowd50 + pownocc50 + lnmedval50 + pnonwht50 + medsch50 + 
    ##     lnpop50 + lnfaminc50 + pemp50 + plf_manuf_50 + pinc_under2g_50 + 
    ##     Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + 
    ##     Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42, data = city)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -14.429  -1.081   0.256   1.223   4.636 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                  Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)     13.265134  20.718757   0.640 0.522349    
    ## ur_iv            0.003367   0.003142   1.072 0.284482    
    ## poldunits50     -0.003343   0.008302  -0.403 0.687354    
    ## pdilap50        -0.050901   0.043027  -1.183 0.237461    
    ## punitswoplumb50  0.044338   0.016879   2.627 0.008922 ** 
    ## pcrowd50         0.010319   0.025990   0.397 0.691532    
    ## pownocc50        0.026022   0.015688   1.659 0.097903 .  
    ## lnmedval50       3.702343   0.752941   4.917 1.25e-06 ***
    ## pnonwht50       -0.049582   0.016611  -2.985 0.002997 ** 
    ## medsch50         0.079020   0.160006   0.494 0.621657    
    ## lnpop50         -0.279475   0.123715  -2.259 0.024376 *  
    ## lnfaminc50       1.236503   2.464841   0.502 0.616163    
    ## pemp50           0.403055   0.081235   4.962 1.00e-06 ***
    ## plf_manuf_50    -0.044481   0.013298  -3.345 0.000895 ***
    ## pinc_under2g_50  0.038665   0.051905   0.745 0.456728    
    ## Iregion_12      -2.673809   0.446694  -5.986 4.51e-09 ***
    ## Iregion_21      -3.695338   0.526778  -7.015 8.85e-12 ***
    ## Iregion_22      -1.796852   0.598403  -3.003 0.002830 ** 
    ## Iregion_31      -0.238684   0.702713  -0.340 0.734276    
    ## Iregion_32      -0.372282   0.847945  -0.439 0.660850    
    ## Iregion_33       0.415264   0.847260   0.490 0.624292    
    ## Iregion_41      -2.030569   0.786688  -2.581 0.010173 *  
    ## Iregion_42      -1.178270   0.702629  -1.677 0.094272 .  
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 2.074 on 435 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.5211, Adjusted R-squared:  0.4969 
    ## F-statistic: 21.51 on 22 and 435 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

    summary(povertyModel)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = pinc_under5g_80 ~ ur_iv + poldunits50 + pdilap50 + 
    ##     punitswoplumb50 + pcrowd50 + pownocc50 + lnmedval50 + pnonwht50 + 
    ##     medsch50 + lnpop50 + lnfaminc50 + pemp50 + plf_manuf_50 + 
    ##     pinc_under2g_50 + Iregion_12 + Iregion_21 + Iregion_22 + 
    ##     Iregion_31 + Iregion_32 + Iregion_33 + Iregion_41 + Iregion_42, 
    ##     data = city)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##    Min     1Q Median     3Q    Max 
    ## -9.413 -1.776 -0.284  1.453 93.255 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                  Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)   
    ## (Intercept)     55.145466  72.905664   0.756  0.44994   
    ## ur_iv           -0.005810   0.009660  -0.601  0.54793   
    ## poldunits50     -0.074282   0.027161  -2.735  0.00657 **
    ## pdilap50         0.029969   0.137529   0.218  0.82763   
    ## punitswoplumb50 -0.088867   0.056126  -1.583  0.11428   
    ## pcrowd50        -0.002281   0.081797  -0.028  0.97777   
    ## pownocc50       -0.169103   0.052785  -3.204  0.00149 **
    ## lnmedval50      -4.316539   2.393598  -1.803  0.07223 . 
    ## pnonwht50        0.110390   0.052143   2.117  0.03499 * 
    ## medsch50        -1.610934   0.533537  -3.019  0.00273 **
    ## lnpop50          0.356454   0.393696   0.905  0.36590   
    ## lnfaminc50       2.263099   8.636517   0.262  0.79345   
    ## pemp50           0.020153   0.261717   0.077  0.93867   
    ## plf_manuf_50    -0.033093   0.042230  -0.784  0.43381   
    ## pinc_under2g_50  0.045346   0.180496   0.251  0.80179   
    ## Iregion_12       2.930786   1.500507   1.953  0.05163 . 
    ## Iregion_21      -0.009868   1.694326  -0.006  0.99536   
    ## Iregion_22       0.031132   1.971659   0.016  0.98741   
    ## Iregion_31      -2.986668   2.185537  -1.367  0.17268   
    ## Iregion_32      -3.865594   2.615349  -1.478  0.14033   
    ## Iregion_33      -3.918800   2.667494  -1.469  0.14274   
    ## Iregion_41      -0.373342   2.441029  -0.153  0.87853   
    ## Iregion_42      -1.543513   2.183218  -0.707  0.48006   
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 5.835 on 336 degrees of freedom
    ##   (99 observations deleted due to missingness)
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.2431, Adjusted R-squared:  0.1935 
    ## F-statistic: 4.904 on 22 and 336 DF,  p-value: 2.874e-11

We can see that the federal programs do have a significant effect on
future property values. To interpret this coefficent, you would say that
an addition $100 in per capita funding relates to a 6.9% increase in
median property values by 1980. Interestingly, the authors get different
slightly different standard errors -- likely due to OLS calculation
specifics -- that show the effect on income to be significant while our
regression does not. But it relates at $100 increase in spending to a
2.4% increase in median income.

The other economic variables do not show specific effects.

Conclusions
-----------

This analysis can not determine whether urban renewal projects are good
or bad in all measures. However, it does provide evidence that urban
renewal projects boost property values and increase median incomes --
for the city as a whole -- over an extended period of time.

It remains to be seen whether these economic effects are felt across all
income levels and what peripheral costs are imposed up groups with lower
incomes.
